https://ftx.com/


Website - White background with black text

Website text font - as similar as possible but in black

-----------
PAGE 1 “Homepage”
*FTX EXPRESS LOGO*

We’re a Australian based escrow company helping businesses and individuals exchange assets and funds.

What is Escrow?
Escrow is the term used when a contractual arrangement between two or more parties is put in place, in which an Escrow Company will hold funds or property during a transaction, acting as an independent third party.

When providing Escrow Services the Escrow Company acts as a third party to the transaction by holding the funds or property until pre-agreed conditions have been met. Once the conditions are met the Escrow Service provider will release the funds/ property held.

Escrow Services can be used in almost any situation where money or property is being transferred between parties.

What is it used for?
Escrow can be used in relation to virtually any matter involving the transfer of money or property.
Examples include:
* Corporate financing and the raising of capital
* Corporate transactions including mergers, acquisitions and sales
* Charity and fundraising events
* Loans where release of the loan money is conditional on a future event or is to be paid in instalments
* Real estate and other property related transactions
* Sales of high value property at a distance (eg cars, antiques and wine)
* The holding of settlement funds following disputes
Please see our services page, for the types of service and sectors we work with.

What are the benefits of using Escrow?

Escrow Services are commonly used to provide certainty to all parties involved in a transaction regarding flow of funds.
When using an Escrow Service, both parties will agree on set conditions that must be met before the Escrow Service provider releases any funds held in the Escrow Account.

How does Escrow work – our 5 step guide

FTX Express will act as an independent party in an agreement. This means that FTX Express Escrow holds and regulates the funds of the transaction until the conditions set out in the escrow agreement have been met.

1

A buyer and seller make an agreement
Agree terms
Party A and Party B agree to terms - FTX Express will draft an escrow agreement tailored to the clients needs. This agreement will contain specific release of funds conditions.
 
2

The buyer pays FTX Express Escrow
Payment to escrow
Party A - submits a payment by approved payment method to our Escrow Account, FTX Express verifies the payment and notifies the parties that funds have been deposited.
 
3

The seller sends the goods to the buyer
Contract performed
Party B provides the goods or services to party A.
 
4

The buyer accepts goods as per agreement
Contract complete
Party A receives the goods or services and proof of contract and completing is provided.
 
5



----------

PAGE 2 “About us”

About us

When using an Escrow Service provider, we understand that it’s important to make sure you trust the Escrow Company you’ve chosen. At FTX Express we have taken multiple steps to provide peace of mind for all our customers.

How are we Regulated?

FTX Express is reigistered in Australia with ACN 657907894. FTX Express is authorised by ASIC under The Payment Systems (Regulation) Act 1998 with registration number 81777620 for the provision of payment services.
Please note that our authorisation with the Australian Securities & Investment Commission (ASIC) applies only in relation to payment services transactions.


Where are my Funds kept? 

FTX Express bank with one of Australias leading banks. We have declared a trust over our dedicated client escrow bank account.

The fact we operate a client account means that client funds are segregated from our own funds, and the trust adds additional peace of mind. Your money held by FTX Express would be safe even if FTX Express were to become insolvent, as the insolvency practitioners could not distribute client money to pay for debts of the business, as the trust segregates them.     
 
What identity checks do we carry out?

When setting up an escrow account we carry out ‘Know your Client’ (KYC) checks / Anti-Money Laundering (AML) checks on all parties involved in the escrow transaction. This is a requirement of our regulator.

We will require Photographic Identification and proof of address, and may also ask for information regarding the source of funds being used for the transaction and source of wealth, from each of the involved individuals. Identity will also be verified whether in person, over the phone or via photos. It may be that one or more of the parties are Companies, in which case we will ask for KYC documents from one or more of the directors and shareholders.

If you would like more information on our KYC / AML process please don’t hesitate to contact us.

-----------
PAGE 3 “Services”

Escrow Services

FTX Express is a leading provider of high quality and cost effective escrow services.

We act as a third party in holding funds or property until it can be released on terms agreed by the parties to the transaction. Escrow services give certainty to the parties to the transaction in that:

* The buyer or fundraiser knows that the property or funds exist and will be made available to it when the transaction completes; and
* The seller or investor knows that the property or funds will not be released to the buyer or fundraiser until the transaction completes

Types of Escrow Services
To give a better understanding of the types of services which we can provide, we have included below some detailed examples of how an escrow service could be of use to you.

Fundraising
Whether you are looking to conduct an Investment fundraise, or you are raising money for your Charity, FTX Express Escrow are able to assist.

Investment Fundraising
When it comes to investment fundraising, certainty for all involved is often at the forefront of every transaction. Ensuring that funds are held by an independent third party offers peace of mind for both investors and business alike, and using an escrow service is a key component in commercial fundraising.

Setting up an escrow account allows investors to commit to making an investment with the knowledge that the funds will not be released to the business conducting the fundraise until the fundraising target has been met. It also ensures that, in the event that the Investment fundraise was not successful, the money is set aside to be returned to the investor.

Equally, the business conducting the fundraise has the knowledge that its investors are committed to the investment, which allows the business to focus on reaching their Fundraising target and running their business.

Payments out of the Escrow Account can even be staggered or linked to milestones, so the investors know their funds won’t all be used at once, and the businesses know the funds are available when needed.


Charity Fundraising
In many charity and fundraising events, the money raised will need to be held pending release to the relevant beneficiaries. It is important the money raised through fundraising events is held and released at the right time.
Using Escrow services is a useful means of ensuring that the funds are held and that they are released as and when required. It offers the fundraiser the certainty that the funds are held in the escrow account, until they have reached their intended fundraising target. It also allows the parties donating to be confident in the in knowledge that all the funds will be release to the intended charities / beneficiaries once the relevant escrow completions have been met.




Construction & Development
FTX Express Escrow offers a variety services that can be used in the world of construction and development. From fixed fee escrow agreements relating to party wall matters, to escrow agreements relating to the Buying and selling of Real Estate, to bespoke agreements for Construction Escrow Accounts, we offer our clients high quality escrow services to meet their individual needs. Below we have some of the ways Escrow Services can be used in construction and development.


Construction Contracts
It’s no secret that embarking on small or large scale construction project requires funding, and a skilled team of contractors. Over the years we have heard many stories in the press, of development companies becoming insolvent and no longer being able to pay their contractors.
Whilst there are a number of statutory and other rights that contractors can fall back on, these usually only provide outcomes after the developer has missed payments, and even then, they may not protect against insolvency and cannot guarantee payment. This is where the use of a Construction escrow account can offer a solution.
By placing funds into a construction escrow account, the developer is able to guarantee the funds are available for the project and contractors can be sure that the funds are set aside for their payment. These escrow payments, can be structured on specific milestones for the project in question.
FTX Express Escrow are able to draft a bespoke Construction Escrow Agreement that contain pre-agreed conditions that must be met by the contractors before any payments are released. These conditions are agreed upon by both the developer and the contractors and drafted into the Construction Escrow Agreement by FTX Express Escrow.
Once these conditions have been met, the escrow service provider can release the funds form the escrow account to the relevant party, as set out in the Construction Escrow Agreement.

Property Sale
Escrow services are commonly associated with buying and selling property. In the USA being ‘in escrow’ is a term indicating the Buyer and Seller of the property are currently negotiating the price and terms of the sale.
Much in the same way, escrow services can be used in Australia when buying or selling a property without the use of a mortgage. Putting money in escrow when buying a house or property can provide certainty to both seller and buyer throughout the transaction.
The Escrow Agreement will outline the conditions agreed upon by both the seller and buyer of the property, for example any maintenance of the property to be fulfilled by the seller before exchange, or after completion. Once these conditions have been agreed, the buyer will deposit the funds into the escrow account to be held against completion of the remedial work. Upon the completion of the conditions outlined in the Escrow Agreement, the escrow service provider will then release the funds to the seller of the property.
This process gives the seller peace of mind when carrying out any agreed works, allowing the seller to know that funds for the purchase will be available upon completion. 
It also allows the buyer to be confident that the seller is committed to the transaction, and is making the necessary steps to complete the sale of the property in accordance with the agreed upon terms.


Legal and Corporate Escrow Services

FTX Express Escrow offers legal and corporate escrow services which provide certainty to legal transactions.

Dispute Resolution Escrow Services

Escrow services can be utilised when a dispute or litigation is settled and one party is required to pay money to the other as part of the settlement. In most cases escrow services are used when settlement monies may be due to be paid from one party to another, however the finalisation of the settlement is still pending.
The settlement monies are paid into the escrow account. The escrow service provider holds the sum of money until the settlement is finalised, and they have been notified of the outcome, usually by means of a court judgement or joint instruction from the parties in dispute after settlement. The escrow services provider will then release the funds to the relevant party.

M&A Escrow Services
It is common place for corporate transactions to utilise escrow services when it comes to dealing with deferred consideration or earn outs. Both scenarios require the releasing of funds following completion, either on a set date or when certain criteria has been met.
Using escrow services provides the seller with reassurance that the buyer has the necessary funds to complete the purchase, as well as providing the buyer with the knowledge that the funds will not be released until the agreed conditions have been met.
----

PAGE 4 “Accounts” -----> faq

How will my funds be held for escrow?

Once you have an escrow agreement in place, and signed by all parties, the next step will be to deposit the funds / real property with the escrow service provider. If it is real property (e.g. antiques or source code on memory stick) that will be held by the escrow service provider, they will have previously agreed with the parties a location for the property to be kept, and upon signing the escrow agreement the escrow service provider will request the property to be transferred to this location.
When funds are to be placed into escrow, the escrow service provider will make the request for the funds to be deposited upon signing the escrow agreement. The escrow service provider will supply the party depositing the funds with the relevant account information to make the payment. It is common for escrow service providers to hold the funds in a dedicated client account that is held in the escrow service provider’s name, much like a solicitor would. The client account can be “ring-fenced”, meaning that the Bank acknowledges that the funds held within the account do not belong to the escrow service provider. It also means that the funds can not be used for the needs of the business, for example if the escrow service provider were to become insolvent, the funds held in the client account could only be returned to the person who deposited them.
Once the funds have been deposited the escrow service provider will typically use accounting software to allocate the funds to the project. They will then confirm to all relevant parties that the funds have been received.
Our team would be happy to talk through how escrow services can be applied to your transactional projects. To find out more, contact us via email.

How do I release my funds from escrow?

How you go about instructing your escrow service provider to release the funds / property they are holding for your transaction will depend on what was previously agreed between the parties to the transaction, and what trigger events / release conditions were included in the escrow agreement.

You should be aware of what action you need to take to release the funds / property from the escrow service provider before signing the escrow agreement and before the funds / property is deposited with them. In most cases evidence that both parties, or the relevant party representatives, are in agreement that the funds / property can be released from escrow to the receiving party. This may take the form of a payment instruction letter signed by all parties, it could be receipt of an invoice for services, or a delivery notice signed by the receiver. What documentation is needed will depend on the type of transaction and what is agreed between the parties.
In complex transactions the release conditions / triggers are often bespoke and drafted to reflect the individual needs of each transaction. However, smaller or more simple transactions may have standard release conditions / trigger events included in template agreements. As an example, a transaction as part of a company sale would most often require bespoke release conditions to be drafted, to work alongside the other legal documents required as part of the sale. For a transaction where an individual is placing funds into escrow as security for expenses, as part of a party wall award, you would most likely be able to rely on standard release conditions included in a template agreement, as it is common for the trigger to be based on sign off from surveyors.
It is worth noting that, if at the time of release of funds a dispute arises between the parties, the escrow service provider will not have a responsibility to assist in settling the dispute – they are simply responsible for holding the funds / property until the dispute has been settled and the release condition / trigger is met.
Our team would be happy to talk through how escrow services can be applied to your transactional projects. To find out more, contact us via email.

How do I close my escrow account?

In the event that all funds / property for your transaction have been released, the escrow agreement will have been fulfilled and this will mark the end of the escrow services being provided. At this point the escrow service provider normally confirms to all parties that the funds / property have been released and that the matter is concluded.

If at any point during your transaction  you wish to end the escrow services being provided to you (but before all of the funds / property have been released), how you proceed will depend on what stage you are at in the process. If you have not yet signed the escrow agreement you will most likely just need to email your escrow service provider to let them know that you no longer wish to go ahead with their services. If you have signed an engagement letter, ensure that you have checked the terms to see if there is a specific termination procedure you need to follow and if you will be liable for any outstanding fees.

If you have already signed the escrow agreement, then you will need to check any termination clauses included in the escrow agreement. The termination clauses will explain the steps you will need to take to terminate the escrow agreement with your chosen escrow service provider. As the agreement will, in most cases be held between multiple parties, they will all need to agree to terminate the services being provided, before the escrow service provider can cease to provide them.

Our team would be happy to talk through how escrow services can be applied to your transactional projects. To find out more, contact us via our email.

PAGE 5 “Contact”

Contact us

PLEASE NOTE: The information you provide to us when you contact us will be used in accordance with our Privacy Policy. By providing your information, you consent to us contacting you by electronic means, for example email or SMS – if you do not want us to use your information in this way, please contact us.
 
Email
Contact@ftxexpress.com

Opening hours
Monday – Thursday 9:00 – 17:30
Fridays 9:00 – 17:00.
The office is closed at weekends and bank holidays.
------
FOOTER
*LOGO*
FTX Express Pty Ltd is a ASIC Australian Proprietary Limited by Shares Registered company operating under The Payment Systems (Regulation) Act 1998